.Dd July 28, 2013
.Dt MKRC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mkrc
.Nd bless files into a dotfile managed by rcm
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mkrc
.Op Fl ChoqSsVvUu
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl B Ar hostname
.Ar files ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This program adds files to your dotfiles directory then installs it
back into your home directory. It can install files under a tag or
different source directory.
.
It supports these options:
.
.Bl -tag -width "-d DIR"
.It Fl B Ar HOSTNAME
use the supplied hostname instead of computing one. Implies
.Fl o .
.It Fl C
copy instead of symlinking when installing the rc file back into your
home directory
.It Fl d Ar DIR
install dotfiles under the specified directory. This can be specified
multiple times.
.It Fl h
show usage instructions.
.It Fl o
install dotfiles into the host-specific directory
.It Fl q
decrease verbosity
.It Fl S
treat the specified rc files as files to be symlinked, even if they are
directories
.It Fl s
if the rc file is a file, symlink it; otherwise, make a directory
structure as described in
.Xr rcup 1
in the section
.Sx ALGORITHM .
This is the default.
.It Fl t Ar TAG
install dotfiles according to tag
.It Fl U
the specified files or directories are to be installed without a leading
dot.
.It Fl u
the specified files or directories are to be installed with a leading dot. This
is the default.
.It Fl v
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.
.It Fl V
show the version number.
.El

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev RCRC"
.It Ev RCRC
User configuration file. Overrides overrides the default locations as in section
.Sx FILES
below.
.El

.Sh FILES
rcm has two file locations: a dotfiles directory, and a configuration file (rcrc).

Unless overridden by the
.Ev RCRC
environment variable, rcm searches for its configuration file (rcrc) in the following
locations, in this order:
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact
.It
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/rcm/rcrc
.It
$x/rcm/rcrc for each directory x in $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS
.It
~/.rcrc
.El
If unset or empty,
.Sx $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
defaults to
.Sy ~/.config

Unless overridden by the
.Fl d Ar DIR
option to
.Xr rcup 1
or
.Ev DOTFILES_DIRS
in
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
rcm searches for its dotfiles directory in the following locations, in this order:
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact
.It
$XDG_DATA_HOME/rcm/rcrc
.It
$x/rcm/rcrc for each directory x in $XDG_DATA_DIRS
.It
~/.rcrc
.El
If unset or empty,
.Sx $XDG_DATA_HOME
defaults to
.Sy ~/.local/share

.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl mkrc ~/.vimrc
.Dl mkrc -t zsh -d company-dotfiles ~/.zshrc ~/.zlogin
.Dl mkrc -o ~/.rcrc
.Dl mkrc -C .ssh
.Dl mkrc -S .zpretzo
.Dl mkrc -U bin
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcup 1 ,
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is maintained by
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mburns@thoughtbot.com
and
.Lk http://thoughtbot.se thoughtbot
